A heart attack occurs when the flow of blood to the heart is severely reduced or blocked. The blockage is usually due to a buildup of fat, cholesterol and other substances in the heart (coronary) arteries. The fatty, cholesterol-containing deposits are called plaques. The process of plaque buildup is called atherosclerosis. Sometimes, a plaque can rupture and form a clot that blocks blood flow. A lack of blood flow can damage or destroy part of the heart muscle.
Symptoms of a heart attack vary. Some people have mild symptoms. Others have severe symptoms. Some people have no symptoms.

Common heart attack symptoms include Chest pain that may feel like pressure, tightness, pain, squeezing or aching, Pain or discomfort that spreads to the shoulder, arm, back, neck, jaw, teeth or sometimes the upper belly ,Cold sweat ,Fatigue, Heartburn or indigestion
Lightheadedness or sudden dizziness ,Nausea, Shortness of breath. Women may have atypical symptoms such as brief or sharp pain felt in the neck, arm or back. Sometimes, the first symptom sign of a heart attack is sudden cardiac arrest.
Some heart attacks strike suddenly. But many people have warning signs and symptoms hours, days or weeks in advance. Chest pain or pressure (angina) that keeps happening and doesn't go away with rest may be an early warning sign. Angina is caused by a temporary decrease in blood flow to the heart.
If you think you're having a heart attack, immediately call 911 or your local emergency number. If you don't have access to emergency medical services, have someone drive you to the nearest hospital. Drive yourself only if there are no other options. Take aspirin, if recommended. Taking aspirin during a heart attack may reduce heart damage by preventing blood clotting. Aspirin can interact with other drugs. Don't take an aspirin unless your care provider or emergency medical personnel say to do so. Don't delay calling 911 to take an aspirin. 

To reduce high heart rate avoid alcohol, exercise regularly, quit smoking and get enough sleep.
Control carbohydrate intake to control your blood sugar level, lose weight and get proper exercise.
